# 1.3: Install the Contract Dev. Toolkit

The ALAIO Contract Development Toolkit, CDT for short, is a collection of tools related to contract compilation. Subsequent tutorials use the CDT primarily for compiling contracts and generating ABIs.

Starting from 1.3.x, CDT supports Mac OS X brew, Linux Debian and RPM packages. The easiest option to install would be using one of these package systems. Pick one installation method only.

> If you have versions of alaio.cdt prior to 1.3.0 installed on your system, please uninstall before proceeding

## Homebrew (Mac OS X)

### Install

    brew tap alaio/alaio.cdt
    brew install alaio.cdt

### Uninstall

    brew remove alaio.cdt

## Ubuntu (Debian)

### Install

    wget https://github.com/ALADINIO/alaio.cdt/releases/download/v1.6.3/alaio.cdt_1.6.3-1-ubuntu-18.04_amd64.deb
    
    sudo apt install ./alaio.cdt_1.6.3-1-ubuntu-18.04_amd64.deb

### Uninstall

    $ sudo yum remove alaio.cdt

## Install from Source

The location where `alaio.cdt` is cloned is not that important because you will be installing `alaio.cdt` as a local binary in later steps. For now, you can clone `alaio.cdt` to your "contracts" directory previously created, or really anywhere else on your local system you see fit.

    cd CONTRACTS_DIR

## Download

Clone version 1.6.3 of the `alaio.cdt` repository.

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/ALADINIO/alaio.cdt --branch v1.6.3 --single-branch
    cd alaio.cdt

It may take up to 30 minutes to clone the repository

> **Virtual machine environment** <br> <br> In case you are using a virtual machine. It should be configured with at least 2 CPUs (does not have to be two physical ones) and 8G of memory to avoid compilation errors

## Build

    ./build.sh

### Install

    sudo ./install.sh

The above command needs to be ran with sudo because alaio.cdt's various binaries will be installed locally. You will be asked for your computer's account password.

Installing alaio.cdt will make the compiled binary global so it can be accessable anywhere. For this tutorial, it is strongly suggested that you do not skip the install step for alaio.cdt, failing to install will make it more difficult to follow this and other tutorials, and make usage in general more difficult.

## Troubleshooting

### Getting Errors during build.

* Search your errors for the string "/usr/local/include/alaiolib/"
* If found, rm -fr /usr/local/include/alaiolib/ or navigate to /usr/local/include/ and delete alaiolib using your operating system's file browser.

## What's Next?

* [1.4 Create Development Wallet](https://developer.alacritys.net/docs/how_alaio_works/getting_started_with_alaio/1._development_environment/1.4_create_development_wallet.md): Steps to create a new development wallet used to store public-private key pair.
