# 1.6: Create Test Accounts

## What is an account?

An account is a collection of authorizations, stored on the blockchain, and used to identify a sender/recipient. It has a flexible authorization structure that enables it to be owned either by an individual or group of individuals depending on how permissions have been configured. An account is required to send or receive a valid transaction to the blockchain

This tutorial series uses two "user" accounts, bob and alice, as well as the default alaio account for configuration. Additionally accounts are made for various contracts throughout this tutorial series.

## Step 1: Create Test Accounts

> **Public Key Persistence** <br> <br> In section 1.4 Create Development Wallet, you created a development key pair and pasted the public key in the Development Public Key field for the value to persist throughout the tutorial.

In the following steps, if you see `YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY` instead of the public key value, you can either go back to section **1.4 Create Development Wallet** and persist the value or replace `YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY` with the public key value manually.

Throughout these tutorials the accounts `bob` and `alice` are used. Create two accounts using [alacli create account]()

    alacli create account alaio bob YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY
    alacli create account alaio alice YOUR_PUBLIC_KEY

You should then see a confirmation message similar to the following for each command that confirms that the transaction has been broadcast.

    executed transaction: 40c605006de...  200 bytes  153 us
    #         alaio <= alaio::newaccount            {"creator":"alaio","name":"alice","owner":{"threshold":1,"keys":[{"key":"ALA5rti4LTL53xptjgQBXv9HxyU...
    warning: transaction executed locally, but may not be confirmed by the network yet    ]

## Step 2: Public Key

Note in alacli command a public key is associated with account `alice`. Each ALAIO account is associated with a public key.

Be aware that the account name is the only identifier for ownership. You can change the public key but it would not change the ownership of your ALAIO account.

Check which public key is associated with `alice` using [alacli get account]()

    alacli get account alice

You should see a message similar to the following:

    permissions:
        owner     1:    1 ALA6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV
            active     1:    1 ALA6MRyAjQq8ud7hVNYcfnVPJqcVpscN5So8BhtHuGYqET5GDW5CV
    memory:
        quota:       unlimited  used:      3.758 KiB

    net bandwidth:
        used:               unlimited
        available:          unlimited
        limit:              unlimited

    cpu bandwidth:
        used:               unlimited
        available:          unlimited
        limit:              unlimited

Notice that actually `alice` has both `owner` and `active` public keys. ALAIO has a unique authorization structure that has added security for your account. You can minimize the exposure of your account by keeping the owner key cold, while using the key associated with your `active` permission. This way, if your active key were ever compromised, you could regain control over your account with your `owner` key.

In term of authorization, if you have a `owner` permission you can change the private key of `active` permission. But you cannot do so other way around.

> **Using Different Keys for Active/Owner on a PRODUCTION Network** <br> <br> In this tutorial we are using the same public key for both owner and active for simplicity. In production network, two different keys are strongly recommended

## Troubleshooting

If you get an error while creating the account, make sure your wallet is unlocked

    alacli wallet list

You should see an asterisk (*) next to the wallet name, as seen below.

    Wallets:
    [
    "default *"
    ]
    
## What's Next?

* [2.1: Hello World Contract](https://developer.alacritys.net/docs/how_alaio_works/getting_started_with_alaio/2._smart_contract_development/2.1_hello_world_contract.md)
