Abstract
========

Blockchain has a unique position to solve the problems currently facing the internet as we know it today. Wire consists of the Wire Foundation, the marketplace and has a native token called "Wire".

Wire Foundation is a multifaceted cryptocurrency platform relaunched under a beta release. It is a first-of-its-kind platform design that enables cryptocurrency to be sent easily, quickly and securely over today's social network infrastructure. It needs no prior setup to receive all transactions, nor any advanced knowledge of them. 

Wire's blockchain is the pioneer in rewards, earnings and mass adoption of crypto-technology. The network implements an innovative approach with its unique blend of features and technological advantages. Wire features zero transaction fees for all transactions, human readability and a system for users to earn rewards. 

Several use cases are enabled, such as no fees to mint NFTs, a wallet app for storage and a marketplace to list them for sale. At no cost, our marketplace [R4R3](https://www.r4r3.io/) allows you to trade with friends, mint and gift NFTs, and more. 

The problem for users today is that Ethereum transactions cost money, referred to as gas, which fluctuates based on traffic and task complexity. [R4R3's](https://www.r4r3.io/) marketplace allows you to own NFTs without hassling gas fees and provides the accessibility to sign transactions interoperable using any blockchain network. [R4R3](https://www.r4r3.io/) is the one-stop marketplace for all your cryptocurrency needs. 

## Next Generation

Wire Foundation is a 3rd generation, NFT-focused blockchain with strong supported NFT uses in Decentralized Play Systems. Designed to change digital assets ownership, decentralized application construction and how all web3 applications function. Wire Foundation has changed the game and continues pushing crypto to the ease of use you'd find in traditional financial applications.

You can send your newly-interested friend cryptocurrency immediately utilizing the R4R3 platform. No sending them to a coin's website/application to download multiple wallets. No pre-downloading of a specific wallet for various transactions. No searching for an address to send to before permitting a transaction. With Wire, users don't need to be aware that you have even sent them coins.
 
R4R3 marketplace allows individuals to send cryptocurrency directly through the R4R3 platform, Facebook, Twitter or Email, adding many more capabilities in the following months. Choose anyone you would like and send them cryptocurrency over any social network platform you select. The applications of this platform are as vast and plentiful, as its users' interactions. 

Blockchain and cryptocurrency can seem very daunting for those without prior knowledge. That is why ease of use is a priority and one of our core principles in the blockchain market. R4R3 is the only platform anyone from one central place can grant consumers the ability to send tokens instantly over Email, Twitter, Facebook and many other social media networks.
 
*ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS ENTER IN THEIR CELL NUMBER, EMAIL ADDRESS, SOCIAL MEDIA NAME OR CREATE A CUSTOM LINK, AND THEY GET THE CRYPTOCURRENCY IMMEDIATELY!*
 
R4R3's revolutionary onboarding protocols open the ability for anyone in the world with a cell phone or internet-capable device to efficiently make cryptocurrency transactions.


## The Objective

Wire foundation's objective is to permit artists and studios to effectively and reasonably construct experiences on a decentralized medium that can secure trustless game-states, digital currencies and Non-Fungible Tokenized Items in a performant, unified and widely accessible format consumable by global audiences.

It is built from the ground up to deliver intuitive experiences for end-users, scale capacity across millions of devices and provide developers with new and sustainable business models for their applications. Wire is creating a best-in-class cryptographic cloud fast enough to deliver the necessary infrastructure for decentralized gaming and other resource-intensive applications.

Like many blockchain systems under active development, Wire will evolve and change over time, adopting new standards, approaches and technologies as the core of Wire's evolution.


