# Introduction

Wire Network is a next generation Layer 1 blockchain that allocates network resources at predictable costs to companies and developers building on the network. It's connected across hundreds of machines worldwide; moreover, it is created to be permissionless, performant and secure to maintain a decentralized data layer for the new web.

Essentially, it is a platform for running applications having access to a shared - and secure - pool of unique resources, throughput and identity. Wire Network features partition-resistant networking, serverless computing and distributed storage into a new kind of platform.

For comparison, several massive centralized enterprise conglomerates operate much of the infrastructure on the internet today, running the most common "clouds", where web 2.0 applications reside. When the servers that make up these computing and storage clouds get controlled by a single entity, this can cause anything running-on or stored within these clouds to be at the mercy of those companies, while government agencies can require them to do things against their will. Due to this, data can easily be lost, censored, altered, sold or hacked, since there is only a single point of failure.

Applications deployed to these cloud servers can also continuously get updated by their original developers or whoever holds their credentials, making software updates easy for developers. Data accessible by an application can be censored, modified or stolen by these same developers, whether at their discretion or because they were hacked or forced by a government authority to do it. The user data generally is stored in large-pooled databases, causing these developers to become targets for those activities. Together, the vulnerability of the developers and the platforms themselves make any sensitive data stored on these platforms vulnerable.

If the cloud which hosts these applications has control by a global community, anyone can be part of the programs and assets stored. Causing them to become transparent and essentially "unkillable," which allows users to hold meaningful things like money, identity and digital assets there; additionally, securely transacting them with anyone without requiring someone else's permission or platform. 

There is no single point of failure because there are multiple redundancies worldwide. More is secure because of the consensus programmatically achieved among community members who make the cloud network. By eliminating the vulnerability of the developer, applications deployed to this cloud can get programmatically locked, so no further updates can modify the state they access. After achieving this state, they become autonomous and can be trusted to continue to perform their functions without fail or interference. This allows secure storage of high-value assets like money, identity and essential pieces of data.

Bitcoin was the first basic version of this global community-run cloud, though it is primarily used only to store and move the Bitcoin digital currency.

Ethereum is the second and slightly more sophisticated version, which expanded the basic principles of Bitcoin to create a more general computing and storage platform; however, it is a raw technology that hasn't achieved meaningful mainstream adoption.

Wire Network represents an evolution beyond what has come before it and is the first decentralized application platform to solve each of the three main challenges to gaining mainstream adoption — Usability, Scalability and Security.
