# Motivation

## Facts:

### All Existing Blockchains fail to deal with 'The Hardware Problem'

All existing blockchains involve some form of centralization at the hardware level and avoid dealing with issues at the hardware level. Historically, networks push this issue off to the block producers or miners to deal with and do not address it beyond that. For example, Ethereum's mainnet mainly receives power from devices manufactured by two companies, AMD and Nvidia. 

These companies do not release firmware as open-source code effectively, preventing end-users from stopping Specter-style attacks that could take place, destabilizing a large amount of the systems that power important mechanisms of trust in these networks.

### Support Millions of Users

An application may not work in cases unless a critical mass of users gets reached. Therefore, a platform that can handle large numbers of users is paramount. Wire's Blockchain technology can facilitate tens of millions of active users daily.

### Free Usage

App developers need the flexibility to offer users free services. Users should not have to pay to use a platform or to benefit from its services. A blockchain platform that supports feeless use for players will likely gain widespread adoption. We believe that once mass adoption becomes reached, developers and game studios can create effective monetization strategies and a better user experience (UX). 

Since Wire charges no gas fees, you can mint your NFTs for free. At Wire, we offer various services at no cost to carry out all your NFT and crypto needs. You can also store your collection of NFTs and auction them at our market. We have a free-to-use NFT camera and many other attractions like our soon-to-release metaverse, available free for our users.  

### Low Latency

A good user experience in multiplayer gaming demands reliable feedback without a delay of more than a few hundred milliseconds. Longer delays frustrate users and make games built on a blockchain less competitive with existing non-blockchain alternative games. Wire offers very low latency to solve this problem, offering users the experience they need on blockchain games for optimal performance with a great UX.

### Interoperability

Wire's interoperability allows abstracted ownership for digital assets across all platforms. Easily trade or gift NFTs to your friends at no cost across all platforms. Game studios building blockchain-based applications need the flexibility to enhance their applications with the latest features on the best protocol without being tied to a specific tech stack. The platform must support workflows based on open-source protocols, with integrations to any technology needed for dApp development. 

Wire provides interoperability, allowing you to store your NFT with our wallet or take it onto the chain of your choice. Our market lets you safely keep your public photos inside your profile and secures personal media with private, decentralized storage.
