# Wire Marketplace	
 
An easy-to-access marketplace to buy, sell, auction and trade NFTs. Use the pre-loaded filters on Wire or upgrade to the premium filters created by partnerships with the hottest digital artists in the industry. Choose between Private, Public and Retail albums to easily access your NFT for its intended audience. NFT personal photos and documents can be in the Private setting where the item can only be seen when the owner gives permission, in the public setting where friends and family can follow your exciting adventures, or in the Retail setting which allows you to engage the NFT Marketplace to monetize your unique, high quality, valuable NFTs. Your NFTs are safe and secure in a decentralized storage environment that is forever on the blockchain.

Wire Marketplace has made the process of minting, storing, selling and trading NFTs simple, fast, easy and at a very low cost. The site is easy to navigate through and set up. It runs on a layer of the Ethereum blockchain and has a list of users on-site to auction, trade, or sell NFTs too. You can set collections of your own NFT art or post them in a collection with other users that authorize you to manage your work together with theirs. 


The NFT Marketplace itself is Multichain. Though it runs on the Ethereum blockchain, multichain capabilities allow almost all blockchains to inter-operate. MultiChain takes place when two Blockchain nodes connect. The identity of each node represents itself with an address with a list of permissions. Therefore each node that it represents sends a message to the other users. The peer-2-peer (P2P) connection aborts if they do not receive any satisfying results from the process. This allows users in the Wire Market to connect with other blockchains separate from Ethereum for transactions to carry out with ease between different blockchains. 

The Marketplace brings some unique new features to the NFT community. Not only can you mint, buy and sell NFTs, but now you can feature and trade your collection of NFTs with other users in the market. You can request a trade swap of one of your NFTs listed with another user NFT of your liking. Also with the ability to store and display your collection of NFTs, other users can request a trade swap of one of their NFTs for one you have on display. Airiwire Market is the first to bring the ability to list, request, accept and/or deny a trade of your NFTs for another NFT displayed on the Market.

Royalties are something that every artist is entitled to. On the Wire Marketplace, you can set a certain percentage of royalties that you collect each time your NFT is sold. Blockchain has made tracing the timeline of the NFT transactions efficient and ensures a record is kept for royalty disbursement until you chose to stop collecting them. 

## Gaming On-Chain Advantages:

* Blockchain gaming is gaming that utilizes true item ownership from the same technology that lies at the core of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum.

* Gaming on-chain provides advantages apart from gaming off-chain. 

* Publishers cannot remove blockchain assets or remove immutable features from games.

* Play to Earn (Compensate Players for Grinding on Games.)

* Stop players from having an unfair advantage over others.
Blockchain gaming is letting players verify that their items are rare and letting them send anything to anyone.

* Fast TPS times and roll-ups allow for faster gameplay that would be required for FPS, real-time racing and other fast-paced games.

* On-Chain access to data on other blockchains and EVM integration.

* Support for UPAP wallets (Universal Polymorphic Address Protocol.)
* Market Dapps to non-crypto users (Mass Adoption.)

# Wire Marketplace - Nft Creator

## Create, store, collect, auction and trade NFTs on Wire’s Marketplace

Create a collection- a group of assets whose permissions are all managed together. 
* You can create your collection or post in a collection that you’re authorized for (ex: Instruments)
Create a schema- (Must have a collection)
* Schema - defines attributes contained in an asset. Schemas belong to a collection (ex: Guitar, Saxophone) 
Mint an asset (Must have a collection & schema)
* Asset - the core of the NFT. Attributes are defined by a schema and must be part of a collection (ex: 1987 car)
AirDrop pool manager
* Create and edit airdrop pools of NFTS
Group Manager
* Create, edit and manage permissions for groups
 
## NFT Camera
Wire's NFT Camera allows you to capture and secure your most precious moments straight to your phone by downloading this first of its kind App. Profile pictures, private moments, and personal identification, all have a safe place in Wire's decentralized NFT media storage. You can enhance your photos with editing tools and premium filters before you mint the photo into an NFT, all from your phone or chosen device. Interoperability allows you to store the NFT with Wire or take it onto the chain of your choice. You can store your public photos inside your Wire profile or secure your media in your private, decentralized storage. Monetize your valuable NFT photos in Wire's NFT Marketplace, while getting paid royalty fees each time it sells for the lifetime of the NFT.
## Airdrop Pools
Create an Airdrop pool on the Wire NFT marketplace! Choose NFTs from your wallet to add to a pool. Create specific groups of users that can claim from the pool, or allow it to be open for anyone to claim. You can set the claim limit, Airdrop duration, and more! You can either choose to allow users to claim an NFT at random from the pool, or allow them to select their NFT from all that are still available.
Many crypto companies distribute free coins to their communities to increase their project’s visibility, increase the circulating supply and stimulate trade. These free distributions are commonly known as airdrops. Listed are some of the ways Wire is revolutionizing airdrops.
1. Through Wire, social media marketing simply piggybacks on current social media ad platforms. Wire can use current platforms or operate without them to target and reward new potential crypto users.								
2. Wire token recipients undergo KYC/AML, allowing airdrop distributors to target specific user wallets avoiding regulatory concerns. By completing the KYC/AML process they can capitalize on multiple airdrop rewards. This also gives distributors access to the pre-verified and whitelisted users which they may not have been able to reach before.
3. As Wire continues to optimize airdropping, projects will be able to track the precise effectiveness of each airdrop. A company can leverage the data collected in airdrops to more precisely target future users. Projects will be able to target optimal users. This will provide further awareness. By extracting data from exchanges and social media, airdrops can be personalized.


