# AirWire Web Wallet

## Wallet Apps

Wallet apps are similar to physical wallets in that they let you store different forms of currency like cash and credit cards, except they let you store digital assets and cryptocurrency. Blockchain wallets allow you to store, manage and use various forms of cryptocurrencies, as-well-as other blockchain-based digital assets, like NFTs. There are two basic types of blockchain wallets: software and hardware wallets.

Blockchain wallets usually are stored in apps on mobile and other internet-based electronics. A hardware wallet is a physical device that secures access to your cryptos offline, such as a flash drive. They are easy to use and have become more popular with the mass adoption of digital currencies. Wallet app's popularity has increased with the rising adoption of cryptocurrencies as an investment asset class, digital payment option and digital economy facilitator. 

Wire has a marketplace that allows for NFT and crypto storage. The marketplace is a soft wallet because it is stored online as a web wallet app. The wallet itself on Wire comes with a private and public key once you create a profile. Public addresses, or the Public key, is the cryptographic code or public addresses that allow users to receive assets in a crypto wallet. Private cryptocurrency keys are the passwords of the cryptocurrency world that are needed to access the wallet. 
 
These crypto keys allow you to access your cryptocurrency inside of your wallet and be able to send the funds to other addresses. The marketplace can also be a storage for your specialized wallet, connected to your profile and can link with MetaMask. Wire Marketplace is a virtual place to view and track current market prices from the top cryptocurrencies, create a watchlist of some of the most popular cryptos on the market right now, and manage your Wire wallet containing the WIRE token, NFTs and more!

## Metamask

MetaMask is a cryptocurrency "soft" wallet app that can be downloaded onto any software device to store and transact with crypto assets on the blockchain. Users can access their wallets through a web browser or download the mobile app. Interaction with decentralized applications is its primary usage. The installation and account creation is fast and easy to use. Once you import your Crypto onto a MetaMask wallet, you can send or receive it directly from your MetaMask wallet. It is highly secured compared to other live wallets since it encrypts information with encryption algorithms and has a vault. Providing more security is one of its main attractions. You can buy and sell NFTs with little hassle on MetaMask since it connects with multiple NFT markets. MetaMask enables you to register and store games digital assets for transactions on major crypto networks like Ethereum, securing them for usage on blockchain games.     

## Anchor

Anchor is a next-generation authenticator powered by blockchain technology. It is an open-sourced digital wallet focused on security and privacy on the EOSIO-based network. It is available on mobile or desktop. Anchor has allowed for the utilization of decentralized power of blockchains to help people with less tech-savvy knowledge. This adoption of blockchain capabilities can impact more of the public with Anchor. Anchor enables login, documentation signing, and executing distributed smart contracts conveniently with the ease you would receive from a centralized solution. EOS private keys imported into your Anchor wallet enable seamless connection to multiple services of the EOSIO ecosystem.  

## Scatter

Scatter wallets safely manage keys and sign transactions. Scatter allows blockchain-centric applications from users without exposing their private keys. Scatter wallets are considered the least secure since it is mainly browser-based wallets that often send your private key to the company server. Scatter was a chrome extension that used a single sign-on with asymmetric encryption to avoid security issues. That allowed you to sign transactions without exposing your private key. Scatter stores everything on your device, so any data sent to the blockchain gets delivered as a hashed fingerprint. Scatter has a mobile version in production and currently supports EOS and Ethereum, with support for more blockchains continuously being added.

## MegaMask

Wire has established a solution for the multichain processing of smart contracts with MegaMask. It is the Universal Polymorphic Address Protocol (UPAP) wallet, for one universal wallet to send and receive transactions cross-chain and multichain, without needing a bridge or multiple wallet apps for transactions with anyone. MegaMask's intended creation is to send and receive funds from one blockchain to a separate blockchain for a cross-chain swap amongst different chains to avoid security threats and costs associated with using a bridge. It is a downloadable extension for interoperable transactions across multiple blockchains. These transactions perform without needing to create an account on each chain for the transaction to be accepted. 

MegaMask's intended for accounts to automatically create access on both sides of a contract to allow separate networks to exchange and carry-out transfers without needing a wallet placed on both ends. Instead, a public address is automatically assigned for the process to be carried out multi-chain between the sender and receiver with the Layer Zero protocol. Safety and security are a priority with MegaMask as a deterministic system, with the ability to sign and verify contracts without a bridge, even if they are cross-platform.

Layer Zero is a network framework running beneath the blockchain. It consists of protocols, connections, hardware, miners and everything else that forms the foundation of the blockchain ecosystem. Layer Zero compliments the three significant pillars of blockchain - scalability, neutrality and adaptability-supporting block encryption and hiding the block's origin using P2P relaying. MegaMask, created by the development team at Wire, was intended to help improve mass adoption, lower costs, develop an easy way for everyone to use crypto and simplify the transaction process of all blockchain transfers. 

