# How Wire Works

## Interoperability

Wire provides developers and entrepreneurs with a more robust, less intrusive, more legitimate way of monetizing their infrastructure with interoperability. Contracts on Wire have a portion of the fees generated by the network automatically allocating to that contract and might be withdrawn by its developer if coded too. This both incentivizes early infrastructure development (because the early contracts will build network effects that increase usage) and provides a business model so application and infrastructure developers can benefit from their creations without creating ill-advised tokens.

## NFTs and Digital Assets Interoperability

NFTs in gaming allows users more control and ownership of various items purchased or earned during gameplay. It has opened a new path for making money or valuable digital assets by trading, staking, selling and making purchases of game items in the cryptocurrency market. Items, such as weapons, costumes, characters, armor, collectibles, land and other gameplay collectibles, can now be purchased or traded as NFTs with cryptocurrency online, rather than in past slower traditional currency transactions. NFTs allow for a decentralized gaming environment, which enables players complete control within a game. NFT items in the game marketplace can now transfer from one game to another, meaning they are interoperable. NFTs are the new standard for genuine interoperability in gaming. NFTs provide ownership of digital or other assets on a public and auditable database in gaming.

## Metadata

Metadata is information about other data; in the case of an NFT, it describes the NFT's fundamental features, such as its name, description and anything else its author deems significant. In many situations, the metadata of an NFT also includes connections to the photographs and other "main" digital assets that give the NFT its value. Because NFT markets rely on metadata to present NFTs to buyers and sellers, that metadata must be in a format that marketplaces understand. To ensure that your NFTs are compatible with as much of the ecosystem of markets, wallets and other NFT tools as feasible, you should use an existing metadata standard. If necessary, adapt it to meet your unique requirements. During the mint of NFTs, the metadata and other associated files get saved on the Interplanetary File System (IPFS.)

## Mass Adoption

These three components are needed to open the floodgates for the general public and persuade people to enter the space for mass adoption: The first is in financial gain propositions for individuals. Secondly, applications with ease of use that are on par or better than the traditional economies they are looking to disrupt are needed. Lastly, established companies using the first two components to convert their backend systems to blockchain will contribute.

Blockchain will grow the fastest by converting the well-known allies and their most established networks that currently are on the sidelines. Education, security assurances and cost-saving advantages will expedite the conversion time. AirWire's primary focus is on the individual user, giving them more control and less expense.


