# Economics

## Wire Token 

Wire token is the fundamental native asset of the Wire ecosystem and has functionality enabled for all accounts. Each token is a unique digital asset like Ether used to:

    - Pay the system for processing transactions and storing data.
    - Run a validating node as part of the network by participating in the staking process.
    - Help determine how network resources allocate and where its future technical direction will go by participating in governance processes.

The Wire token enables the economic coordination of all participants who operate the network, plus it allows new behaviors among the applications built on top of that network.

The ecosystem which makes up the Wire platform is driven primarily by economic forces. Those economic forces create incentives that allow participants without permission to organize and influence the platform's principal functions creating disincentives for undesirable, irresponsible or malicious behavior. Incentives are needed in the short-term and long-term for the platform to be effective.

Fundamentally the Wire platform is a marketplace between willing participants on supply and demand. On the supply side, operators of the Validator Nodes and other fundamental infrastructures need incentives to provide these services that make up the "community cloud."  On the demand side, the developers and end-users of the platform who are paying for its use need to be able to do so in a simple, clear and consistent way that helps them.

Further, economic forces can also be applied to support the ecosystem as a whole. They are used at a micro level to create new business models by directly compensating the developers who create its most used applications. At a macro level, they coordinate the efforts of a broader set of ecosystem participants who participate in everything from education to governance.

## ERC-20 Interoperability

A second phase of the relaunch is utilizing the AirWire platform to swap users of the WIRE token away from the previous PIVX blockchain into a new ERC20 WIRE token. The new ERC20 WIRE token will issue a reverse token split of 10:1. The WIRE token will maintain some of its previous utility inside the platform with new concepts added to its staking and reward features.

All former users and account holders can access their accounts and wallets on the platform. AirWire will conduct a swap for the classic WIRE tokens to facilitate a migration to its new blockchain protocol, currently under redevelopment, migrating from the original PIVX blockchain.

## Token Community

Wire has confirmed over 12,000 registered users, 7,800 fully compliant registrations that abide by international KYC (Know Your Customer) rules, over 80,000 prospective users, and 15,000 plus followers across Discord, Telegram, and Twitter. The Wire Marketplace is growing a large user base with its distinct features like NFT trading, a camera app with auctions for NFT collects that users can create.	

## Tokenomics

* TOTAL SUPPLY: 1,000,000,000
* ANNUAL INFLATION: 5.00%
* MAX SUPPLY: 500,000,000
* TICKER: WIRE
* TYPE: UTILITY            
* Registrations: ~85,000
* Fully KYCd Users: ~7000
* Addresses: ~42,547

## Sustainability

The platform should encourage significant decentralization, in the short-term and the long-term, to properly secure the value it hosts. The network - and community - should be widely inclusive and without the need for permission while actively encouraging decentralization and participation. For sustainability, the technological and community governance mechanisms need allowance for practical iteration while avoiding capture by any single party in the long run.