Governance
==========
Governance in the blockchain gets based on a set of rules of consensus among the users participating in the blockchain, with one form occurring within the blockchain(on-chain) and the other operating outside the blockchain(off-chain.) Through governance, rules are agreed upon and followed to achieve good system development. NFTs added a principle designed to give player's option to vote on changes within the game development. Developers launched governance NFTs within the game sector in 2020. Players can use their NFTs as a voice now, giving the players the right to vote on future developments and gameplay elements. Every NFT owned by the player counts as one vote on the developmental aspects in the game sector. The more NFTs collected and kept allow for more voting rights.


Structure
---------

Wire nodes T1, T2, & T3 will be available to purchase in USD, BTC, ETH, or Stable Coin via a private sale. Wire node purchasers receive rewards in $WIRE tokens equal to the amount of USD used to purchase the node at the $WIRE token price. Nodes are a point in a network that either distributes data to other nodes in the network or is an endpoint of a network. Typical blockchain nodes may interconnect to several other nodes in a network. Three different tiers of nodes are available for purchase as the network launches.

Now available, we have 10 of the 21 appointed T1 nodes that are the most scarce, and you can purchase them for the cost of 750,000 USD for each node. We have 76 of the 80 appointed T2 nodes available to buy for 100,000 USD per node. We also have 1,000 appointed T3 nodes available for purchase for 10,000 USD for each node. The current model involves the WIRE allocation for nodes of three tiers that can stake to get rewarded back for a percentage of the inventory. New nodes will be released in the inventory expansion when the games utilizing the resources of T1 and T2 use up our current existing inventory.

Staking
-----

Staking is more decentralized, allowing for increased participation and more secure sharding. It makes it easier for you to run a node. It doesn't require huge investments in hardware or energy, and if you don't have enough ETH to stake, you can join staking pools in our marketplace.

Staking a node helps with security and can help prevent "Bad Actors." Bad Actors are scam artists and hackers that attempt to attack the network with invalid transactions placed into a block. A big issue facing digital currency is its lack of proof that users haven't spent the same money twice.

Assuming there is a miner that will put invalid transactions into a block. First, this miner has to find a very high-difficulty hash to make the block valid. Second, if the miner can find a hash and successfully publish this corrupted/invalid block, any node that receives this invalid block will examine the data and recognizes that it is not valid. Node seats get appointed among Operators seen as having great insight and value of the Governance of the Wire blockchain.

Node Tiers
-----

**Tier 1: Founder Node Owners**
* T1 Wire Nodes each stake 7.5m WIRE rewarded back over 12 months and hold an equal share of 4% of existing inventory. 
* Primaries - The Founder's Node Owners will get White-listed for future nodes in the Wire Node Expansion.
* Main Task - Maintaining the consensus between other nodes and verifying transactions.
* 21 Seats - 10 of the 21 appointed T1 nodes sold to start as the network launches.

**Tier 2: Councilor Seats**
* T2 Wire Nodes each stake 1m WIRE rewarded back over 24 months, each holds an equal share of 0.15% of existing inventory.
* 84 Seats - Available with 76 of the 84 appointed T2 nodes for purchase at first.
* T1 and T2 - Can White-List contracts with your $PWR and $INV.

**Tier 3: Proprietor Citizenship**
* 1,000 appointed T3 nodes will be available to purchase to start. 
* T3 Wire Nodes would stake 100,000 WIRE rewarded back over 36 months, each holding an equal share of 0.00045% of existing inventory. 
* 450 to 1450 Seats

**Tier 4: Citizenship**

* Gen 1 Seats minted until Network expansion 
* Account's purchase names give them complete control of their keys

**Tier 5: General User**

* Temporary accounts until upgrading to Tier 4

> Mint your WIRE Node today at https://wire.foundation/

---

## Council Elections

This process will be used to elect the governing council for the WIRE network. After the council is filled, this same structure will be used for council members to review and vote on Wire Improvement Proposals (WIPs) defined in the next section. This format will also be modified to handle all voting based governance within the network.

**Step 1: Submission to candidate pool**
- Can be submitted by T1, T2, or T3
- Can be themselves or someone else
- Submission criteria
    - Wire username (T4 holder)
    - Verify twitter 
    - Other KYC data
    - Video or paragraph why you want to be on the council

**Step 2: Candidate submission**
- T1s submit a flight of 3 candidates, in order by preference: Gold (1), Silver (2), Bronze (3)
- Submissions voted on by all T1s
- ⅔ + 1 Majority needed to pass
    - Full network of 21 T1s = 15 votes
    - Proprietary network of 15 T1s = 11 votes
    - Directly scalable to amount of T1s present for voting
- Submissions close 72 hours before deliberation/voting

**Step 3: Voting**
- Circular voting structure (assuming 21 T1s)
- 3 rounds: 21 votes each round (1 per each 21 T1s) for each of the 21 Candidates at each tier (Gold > Silver > Bronze)

    - Round 1: Gold
        - Each T1 casts a total of 21 votes (1 per phases 1-21), Yes or No on each Gold Candidate
        - Gold Phases 1-21    
        - *Example: Gold Phase 1 - T1 #1 votes Yes or No, signs package, passes onto T1 #2 to vote Y/N, so on and so forth until all 21 T1s have voted Y/N on Gold Candidate #1*
        - At the end of each phase, we can determine if the vote passes with majority for Gold Candidate #1
        - This loop repeats for the remaining Gold Candidates #2-21
    - Round 2: Silver
        - If a T1’s Gold Candidate passes vote with majority, candidate selected, done with this T1’s candidates
        - If T1’s Gold Candidate doesn’t receive majority vote, their Silver Candidate goes though the 21 phase vote loop
    - Round 3: Bronze
        - If a T1’s Silver Candidate passes vote with majority, candidate selected, done with this T1’s candidates
        - If T1’s Silver Candidate doesn’t receive majority vote, their Bronze Candidate goes though the 21 phase vote loop
    - Round 4: Fallback
        - If none of a T1’s 3 candidates pass rounds 1/2/3, a T2 is randomly selected from the pool and goes through the 21 phase vote
        - Repeat this loop until a T2 passes to complete the candidate slots

**Step 4: Acceptance**
- Each selected candidate must accept their nomination via ETH signature after they receive a majority in order to join the council

---

## Wire Improvement Proposals (WIPs)

A WIP is a design document providing information to the WIRE community, or describing a new feature for WIRE or its processes or environment. The WIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature. The WIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

We intend WIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into WIRE. Because the WIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

For WIRE implementers, WIPs are a convenient way to track the progress of their implementation. Ideally each implementation maintainer would list the WIPs that they have implemented. This will give end users a convenient way to know the current status of a given implementation or library.

- Flow: `​​[ CREATE ] -> [ DRAFT ] -> [ LAST CALL ] -> [ ACCEPTED ] -> [ FINAL ]`
- To submit a proposal: 
    1. Review WIP structure
    2. Fork the WIP repository
    3. Add your WIP to your fork of the repository using template
    4. Submit a Pull Request to WIRE’s WIP repository

- WIP structure:
    - **Preamble** - RFC 822 style headers containing metadata about the WIP, including the WIP number, a short descriptive title
    - **Simple Summary** - Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the WIP.
    - **Abstract** - a short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.
    - **Motivation** (*optional) - The motivation is critical for WIPs that want to change the WIRE protocol. 
    - **Specification** - The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature.
    - **Rationale** - The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made.
    - **Backwards** Compatibility - All WIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity.
    - **Test** Cases - Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for WIPs that are affecting consensus changes.
    - **Implementations** - The implementations must be completed before any EEP is given status “Final”, but it need not be completed before the EEP is merged as draft. 