Primitives
==========

The primitives that make up the development of the AirWire Blockchain are listed as follows:

1\.  Assets - Assets of all types (from money to data) are now digitally native, meaning they are verifiably unique, individually owned, and completely programmable.

2\.  Accounts - Every actor in the ecosystem has an account that gives them secure storage for their assets, an easy way to verify their identity to applications, and an accumulation of reputation over time.

3\.  Transactions - Because assets are digitally native and accounts are part of the global pool, programmable transactions between parties are simple, cheap, secure, and Wire-instant.

4\.  Verification - Because Wire's storage is publicly verifiable for both timing and content.

5\.  Combinatorial - Combining multiple primitives to create higher-level primitives.

Asset Primitives

Assets are now digitally native, verifiably unique, and fully programmable, used to provide the benefits of digitization to existing assets or the creation of new categories entirely. Example: Money used to be a single one-dimensional commodity, but now it is fully programmable --- everything from the terms of its issuance to conditions of its use can be baked directly into the asset itself.

Asset primitives include:

1\.  Programmatic Ownership - Each account has verifiable control of its money, its digital goods, and its data (which can represent real-world things like identification) as well as the ability to programmatically determine (or split) that ownership.

2\.  Digital Uniqueness - A digital asset can be 100% unique, representing anything from a specific fungible coin to a completely nonfungible token.

3\.  Programmable Assets - Programmatic asset creation, evolution, and destruction.

Account Primitives

Every actor in the ecosystem, human, contract, or device, is treated as having a top-level account. Treating each of these as first-class citizens of the platform allows both old-world identity and new styles of interaction between autonomous or semi-autonomous actors.  

Account primitives include:

1\.  Autonomous - Everything on the chain gets assigned to an account. Accounts can represent a person, company, app, or even a thing (eg a refrigerator).  Accounts are each first-class citizen regardless.

2\.  Single Sign-on (SSO) - One account works across the whole world of apps and anything else that wants to tie into the chain.

3\.  Reputation History - Every account's transaction history gives it a reputation that can be used across services.

Transaction Primitives

The provision of Asset and Account primitives in a shared data pool makes it simple to create seamless interactions between those elements in ways that are almost impossible outside the digitally native medium. The most commonly cited use case involves the permissionless peer-to-peer transfer of money, applying more broadly to any digital asset.

Transaction primitives include:

1\.  Direct - Transfers can be made directly between accounts without requiring the code or permission of a specific application, allowing peer-to-peer marketplaces or transfers.

2\.  Instant - Financial and digital-good transactions have finality in seconds and do not require long waiting periods for confirmation.

3\.  Micro - Negligible fees make high frequency or small quantity transfers significantly more viable than current financial infrastructure allows.

4\.  Conditional - A smart contract can easily add logic to transactions, for example, to create conditional escrow or time-based releases of currency or data.

Verification Primitives

The immutable public ledger uses stored data on Wire, creating a verifiable record of what has occurred in the past and a verifiable repository of the code ran behind particular applications. This is used in several creative ways, small (is a dice game using randomness) to large (creating audit trails for supply chains.)

Verification primitives include:

1\.  Checkpointing - Cryptographic timestamping means it is easy to store verifiable checkpoints of state at a particular time, allowing applications to verify the authenticity or occurrence of previous activity.

2\.  Verify Process Integrity - The code which runs apps deployed to the platform can be verified in a way that current server-side code cannot.

Combinatorial Primitives

While it isn't hard to examine the low-level primitives which natively are provide by the technology from the platform, perhaps the most exciting possibilities comes from combining multiple primitives. Many of these will become discovered over time some examples include:

1\.  Permissionless Markets - Most markets today require permission from someone to function for example, provider of the marketplace where an activity occurs. A combination of multiple low-level primitives disintermediates this control and allows permissionless markets to flourish in places where there was no room to operate previously. This requires a combination of: 

-A native medium of exchange (to transact in) and unit of account (to price in.)

-Note that dynamic cross-currency conversion can make this easier across currencies but users generally still prefer to have a single Schelling point currency.

-Verifiable ownership of an asset.

-Peer-to-peer permissionless transfer of the asset.

-A censorship-resistant marketplace application (which provides discoverability, matching, and pricing.)

2\.  Derivative Assets - While it's significant to provide censorship-resistant asset storage in the first place, combining multiple low-level primitives allows us to create an infinite variety of new assets which combine existing assets, transactions, and logic to meet the risk management needs of anyone inclined to use them. This requires the combination of:

-A.  Verifiable ownership of an asset.

-B.  Programmatic escrow of an asset.

-C.  Programmatic rights transfer.

3\.  Open State Components - Any app has access (when granted) to the shared pool of state data, whether in regards to specific assets or users of the platform. This allows components to operate as microservices do in today's applications --- performing specific functions that can be composed together to achieve larger business goals. Since they are public, competition will ensure that the best of these achieve usage. This requires the combination of:

-A.  A shared data pool.

-B.  User-sovereign data.

-C.  Verifiable process integrity.
