# Introduction

AirWire is a decentralized application platform that runs atop the WIRE Protocol blockchain. This blockchain, which runs across hundreds of machines around the world, is organized to be permissionless, performant and secure enough to create a strong and decentralized data layer for the new web.

Essentially, it is a platform for running applications that have access to a shared — and secure — pool of unique resources, throughput, and identity. AirWire Danes the features of partition-resistant networking, serverless computing and distributed storage into a new kind of platform.

For comparison, several massive centralized enterprise conglomerates operate much of the infrastructure of the internet today and are the most common “clouds'' where web 2.0 applications are housed.  Each of the individual servers which make up these computing and storage clouds are controlled by a single entity. This means that anything running on or stored within them is completely at the mercy of those companies or the government agencies which require them to do things against their will. Data can easily be lost, censored, altered, sold or hacked. This is because there is only a single point of failure.

Applications that are deployed to these cloud servers can also be continuously modified by their original developers or whoever holds their credentials. This makes software updates easy for developers, but it also means that any data accessible by an application can be censored, modified or stolen by these same developers, whether at their discretion or because they were hacked or forced by a governmental authority to do so.  Because user data is generally stored in large-pooled databases, these developers become targets for exactly those activities. Together, the vulnerability of the developers and the platforms themselves make any sensitive data stored on these platforms vulnerable.

When the cloud which hosts these applications is instead run by a global community that anyone can be a part of, the programs and assets stored by it become transparent and essentially “unkillable”, allowing users to store meaningful things like money, identity, and digital assets and securely transact them with anyone without requiring someone else’s permission or platform. There is no single point of failure because there are multiple redundancies around the world. There is security because of the consensus which is programmatically achieved among community members who make up the cloud network.

To eliminate the vulnerability of the developer, applications deployed to this cloud can be programmatically locked so no further updates can modify the state they access. Essentially, once they achieve this state, they become autonomous and can be trusted to continue to perform their functions without fail or interference. This allows the secure storage of high-value assets like money, identity, and key pieces of data.

Bitcoin can be thought of as the first, very basic, version of this global community-run cloud, though it is primarily used only to store and move the Bitcoin digital currency. 

Ethereum is the second and slightly more sophisticated version, which expanded the basic principles of Bitcoin to create a more general computing and storage platform, though it is a raw technology that hasn’t achieved meaningful mainstream adoption. 

AirWire represents an evolution beyond what has come before it and is the first decentralized application platform to solve each of the three key challenges to gaining mainstream adoption; Usability, Scalability, and Security.

