# Governance

NFTs added a principle that was designed to give the player the ability to vote on changes in the development. The developers launched Governance NFTs within the game sector in 2020. Players can use their NFTs as a voice now, which gives players the right to vote on future developments and gameplay elements. Every NFT owned by the player counts as one vote on the developmental aspects in the game sector. The more NFTs collected and owned allows for more voting rights.

## Structure

Wire Nodes T1, T2, & T3 will be available to purchase in USD, BTC, ETH, or Stable Coin via a private sale. Wire Node purchasers will be rewarded in $WIRE token = to the amount of USD they used to purchase the Wire node with a $WIRE token price = to $0.10.

There are three different tiers of Wire nodes that will be available for purchase. 10 of the 21 appointed T1 nodes being the most scarce will cost $750k per node. 76 of the 80 appointed T2 nodes will be available to purchase for $91.88k per node. 1,000 appointed T3 nodes will be available to purchase for $10k per node. 
The current model involves the $WIRE allocation for Wire Nodes for 3 different tiers: 

    - T1 Wire Nodes would each stake 7.5m $WIRE to be rewarded back over 1 year and each holds an equal share of 4% of existing inventory.

    - T2 Wire Nodes would each stake 91.88k $WIRE to be rewarded back over 2 years and each hold an equal share of 0.15% of existing inventory.

    - T3 Wire Nodes would stake 100K $WIRE and each hold an equal share of 0.00045% of existing inventory.

## General Assembly Tier 1 

- Appointed Artificial Governance Seats T1
- Primaries
- 21 Seats

## Interface Tier 2

- Councilor Seats
- 80 Seats

## Social Governance 

    - Proprietors Citizenship Tier 3
        - 450 - 1450 Seats
    - Citizenship Tier 4
        - Gen 1 Seats minted until Network expansion 
        - Accounts purchase names giving them full control of their keys
    - Vagrants Tier 5
        -Temporary accounts until upgrading to Tier 4

