# 1.4 Create Development Wallet

Wallets are repositories of public-private key pairs. Private keys are needed to sign operations performed on the blockchain. Wallets are accessed using alacli.

## Step 1: Create a Wallet

The first step is to create a wallet. Use [alacli wallet create]() to create a new "default" wallet using the option `--to-console` for simplicity. If using alacli in production, it's wise to instead use `--file` so your wallet password is not in your bash history. For development purposes and because these are **development and not production keys** `--to-console` poses no security threat.

    alacli wallet create --to-console

`alacli` will return a password, save this password somewhere as you will likely need it later in the tutorial.

    Creating wallet: default
    Save password to use in the future to unlock this wallet.
    Without password imported keys will not be retrievable.
    "PW5Kewn9L76X8Fpd....................t42S9XCw2"

> **About Wallets** <br> <br> A common misconception in cryptocurrency regarding wallets is that they store tokens. However, in reality, a wallet is used to store private keys in an encrypted file to sign transactions. Wallets do not serve as a storage medium for tokens.

A user builds a transaction object, usually through an interface, sends that object to the wallet to be signed, the wallet then returns that transaction object with a signature which is then broadcast to the network. When/if the network confirms that the transaction is valid, it is included into a block on the blockchain.

## Step 2: Open the Wallet

Wallets are closed by default when starting a kalad instance, to begin, run the following

    alacli wallet open

Run the following to return a list of wallets.

    alacli wallet list

and it will return

    Wallets:
    [
      "default"
    ]

## Step 3: Unlock it

The `kalad` wallet(s) have been opened, but is still locked. Moments ago you were provided a password, you're going to need that now.

    alacli wallet unlock

You will be prompted for your password, paste it and press enter.

Now run the following command

    alacli wallet list

It should now return

    Wallets:
    [
      "default *"
    ]

Pay special attention to the asterisk (*). This means that the wallet is currently **unlocked**

## Step 4: Import keys into your wallet

Generate a private key, `alacli` has a helper function for this, just run the following.

    alacli wallet create_key

It will return something like..

    Created new private key with a public key of: "ALA8PEJ5FM42xLpHK...X6PymQu97KrGDJQY5Y"

## Step 5: Import the Development Key

Every new ALAIO chain has a default "system" user called "alaio". This account is used to setup the chain by loading system contracts that dictate the governance and consensus of the ALAIO chain. Every new ALAIO chain comes with a development key, and this key is the same. Load this key to sign transactions on behalf of the system user (alaio)

    alacli wallet import

You'll be prompted for a private key, enter the `alaio` development key provided below

    5KQwrPbwdL6PhXujxW37FSSQZ1JiwsST4cqQzDeyXtP79zkvFD3

> **Important** <br> <br> Never use the development key for a production account! Doing so will most certainly result in the loss of access to your account, this private key is publicly known.

Wonderful, you now have a default wallet unlocked and loaded with a key, and are ready to proceed.

## What's Next?

* [1.5: Start kalad and alanode](https://developer.alacritys.net/docs/how_alaio_works/getting_started_with_alaio/1._development_environment/1.5_start_kalad_and_alanode.md)
