# Wire

Blockchain is uniquely positioned to solve the problems currently facing the internet as we know it. AirWire is a multifaceted cryptocurrency platform relaunched under a beta release. The AirWire blockchain is the pioneer in rewards, earnings and crypto mass-adoption technology. The platform implements an innovative approach with its unique blend of features and technical advantages. It features zero transaction fees for all transactions, human readability and a system for users to earn rewards. AirWire enables several use cases such as no fees at all to mint NFTs and a marketplace to list them for sale. In the AirWire market, you can trade with friends, transfer tokens and more for absolutely no cost to you. The problem users today face is that Ethereum transactions cost gas or money, which fluctuates based on traffic. AirWire's marketplace allows you to own NFTs without the hassle of gas fees and the accessibility to sign transactions interoperably using any blockchain account.

## Next Generation

AirWire is a 3rd Generation, NFT first Blockchain, with focused support for Decentralized Play Systems. It was designed to change how digital assets are owned, how decentralized applications are constructed and how all web3 applications function.

## The Objective

AirWire has a basic objective - permit artists and studios to effectively and reasonably construct experiences on a decentralized medium that can secure trustless game states, digital currencies and Non-Fungible Tokenized Items in a performant, unified and widely accessible format consumable by global audiences.

It is built from the ground up to deliver intuitive experiences for end-users, scale capacity across millions of devices and provide developers with new and sustainable business models for their applications. AirWire is creating a best-in-class cryptographic cloud fast enough to deliver the necessary infrastructure required for decentralized gaming and other resource-intensive applications.

As with many blockchain systems under active development, AirWire is likely to evolve and change over time. Adoption of new standards, approaches and technologies is the main part of the core of AirWire’s evolution.     


