# How Wire Works

## Interoperability

Wire provides developers and entrepreneurs with a more robust, less intrusive, and more legitimate way of monetizing their infrastructure. When a contract is called, a portion of the fees generated by the network are automatically allocated to that contract and might (if coded as such) be withdrawn by its developer.  This both incentivizes early infrastructure development (because the early contracts will build network effects that increase usage) and provides a business model so application and infrastructure developers can benefit from their creations without creating ill-advised tokens of their own.

## NFTs and Digital Assets Interoperability

NFTs in gaming allow users more control and ownership of various items purchased or earned during gameplay. It has opened a new path for earning money or valuable digital assets by trading, earning, and/or purchasing game items in the cryptocurrency market. Items such as weapons, costumes, characters, armor, collectibles, land, and other gameplay collectibles can now be purchased through NFT rather than traditional currency. NFT allows for a decentralized gaming environment, which enables players full control within a game. NFT items in the game marketplace now can be transferable from one game to another, meaning they are interoperable. NFTs are the new standard for genuine interoperability in gaming. NFTs provide ownership of digital or other assets on a public and auditable database in gaming.

## Metadata

Metadata is information about other data; in the case of an NFT, it describes the NFT’s fundamental features, such as its name, description and anything else its author deems significant. In many situations, the metadata of an NFT also includes connections to the photographs and other “main” digital assets that give the NFT its value. Because NFT markets rely on metadata to present NFTs to buyers and sellers, that metadata must be in a format that marketplaces understand. To ensure that your NFTs are compatible with as much of the ecosystem of markets, wallets and other NFT tools as feasible, you should use an existing metadata standard. If necessary, adapt it to meet your unique requirements. During the minting of NFTs, the metadata and other associated files are saved on the Interplanetary File System (IPFS.)

## Mass Adoption

Three key components that will open up the floodgates for the general public to enter the space is mass. First, financial gain propositions for individuals. Second, applications with ease of use on par or better than the traditional economies they are looking to disrupt. Lastly, established companies using the first two components to convert their main backend systems to blockchain.

Blockchain will grow the fastest by converting large allies and their established networks currently on the sidelines. Education, security assurances and large cost saving advantages will expedite the conversion time. AirWire’s primary focus is on the individual user.


